The Relocation services basically cater employee relocation or workforce mobility including a range of internal business processes to transfer employees, their families, and/or entire departments of a business to a new location. These Relocation processes are meant to be carried out very cautiously as it involves lot of people and precise plans. Whether it is a domestic residential service where an employee moves within a country or state or an International relocation services which include planning for diplomats and managers. We at Transworld will tell how most of the relocations mistakes are committed and when…

Here are a few of them,

Most mistakes in relocation happen when you think you can do it yourself, that’s the first big mistake. Even a move across town can be very complicated. There are a huge number of potential pitfalls, from the wear and tear on your body and damage to your household goods as well, up to unexpected fuel costs. At last, don’t think a do-it-yourself move may be as “cheap” or as fun as you thought (that would be about the time you drop the TV on your foot). It’s still complicated in all ways without proper planning.

With almost 10-20% of population relocating each year, there can be a moving “traffic jam” during certain times of the year. The most reputable movers get booked early during the late spring and summer months when half of all moving takes place, so plan ahead! You don’t want your only option to be a less experienced mover or one who has to hire temporary labor to do your job. So give yourself enough time about 3 to 4 months before the scheduled move-in day to get moving estimates and referrals from several companies, to get your family on board with the idea of moving, and to plan carefully.

Learn to get an estimate, you don’t buy a car or house without knowing its price and the same should go for you as well. Most movers in town offer two kinds of estimates, binding or nonbinding. The nonbinding kind gives you an clear idea of how much your move will cost, based on the mover’s estimate of the size of your current home and its contents, and how far you’re moving. You get the estimate in writing and can only be charged 10 percent more than the estimate. A binding estimate is a legal document that clearly describes the charges, which can’t be changed unless you request significant extra services like if the movers have to climb three flights of stairs they didn’t know about.

When in office relocation or house relocation if you don’t check on insurance, you might end up losing most of your valuables when damaged. What if your mover dropped your favorite Italian designed plates? Who is going to pay that? Well maybe you have one but Does your policy cover moving and items in transit? If you don’t think you have enough coverage, moving companies offer a variety of deals on additional insurance. Find out, too, if your chosen mover has workers’ comp insurance. Some small companies (with fewer than five employees) don’t, and that could mean that paying for an injury someone sustains in your home is your responsibility. Hence beware while you chose your movers.

With all of the other things on your list to worry about, it’s easy to forget that the family pet needs to move too and that’s one thing you can’t have the movers throw in a box! Right? Visit your vet before moving day to make sure your pet has current shots, tags, certificates, and proper identification. If in case your pet will be traveling by air or in a car a long distance, also ask about travel recommendations, portable kennels, and motion sickness medication. Make sure you carry the animal’s papers with you, especially if you cross state lines or move to foreign countries.

Check your inventory list twice; the inventory list is incredibly important. It’s your way of checking that everything from your first home was packed up as it should be and got on the truck. You can’t watch every single item get boxed up and loaded, of course, but a perusal of the inventory document before you leave will give you some reassurance that nothing was left behind.
